- **[[Security frameworks]]** are guidelines used for building plans to help mitigate risks and threats to data and privacy, such as social engineering attacks and ransomware. 
	- Security involves more than just the virtual space. It also includes the physical, which is why many organizations have plans to maintain safety in the work environment. For example, access to a building may require using a key card or badge. 
	- Frameworks are used to create plans to address security risks, threats, and vulnerabilities, controls are used to reduce specific risks. If proper controls are not in place, an organization could face significant financial impacts and damage to their reputation because of exposure to risks including trespassing, creating fake employee accounts, or providing free benefits. 

- **[[Security controls]]** are safeguards designed to reduce specific security risks. In this video, we'll discuss three common types of controls: 
	- **[[Encryption]]** - is the process of converting data from a readable format to an encoded format. Typically, encryption involves converting data from plaintext to ciphertext. 
		- **[[Ciphertext]]** is the raw, encoded message that's unreadable to humans and computers. Ciphertext data cannot be read until it's been decrypted into its original plaintext form. Encryption is used to ensure confidentiality of sensitive data, such as customers' account information or social security numbers. 
	- **[[Authentication]]** - is the process of verifying who someone or something is. 
		- A real-world example of authentication is logging into a website with your username and password. This basic form of authentication proves that you know the username and password and should be allowed to access the website. 
		- More advanced methods of authentication, such as multi-factor authentication, or MFA, challenge the user to demonstrate that they are who they claim to be by requiring both a password and an additional form of authentication, like a security code or biometrics, such as a fingerprint, voice, or face scan. 
			- **[[Biometrics]]** are unique physical characteristics that can be used to verify a person's identity. 
				- Examples of biometrics are a fingerprint, an eye scan, or a palm scan. One example of a social engineering attack that can exploit biometrics is vishing. **[[Vishing]]** is the exploitation of electronic voice communication to obtain sensitive information or to impersonate a known source. For example, vishing could be used to impersonate a person's voice to steal their identity and then commit a crime. 
	- **[[Authorization]]** - refers to the concept of granting access to specific resources within a system. Essentially, authorization is used to verify that a person has permission to access a resource. 
		- As an example, if you're working as an entry-level security analyst for the federal government, you could have permission to access data through the deep web or other internal data that is only accessible if you're a federal employee. 
