**[[Assign priority]]** level to the alert based on organizational guidelines.

### **Assign priority** 

Once the alert has been properly assessed and verified as a genuine security issue, it needs to be prioritized accordingly. Incidents differ in their impact, size, and scope, which affects the response efforts. To manage time and resources, security teams must prioritize how they respond to various incidents because not all incidents are equal. Here are some factors to consider when determining the priority of an incident:

- **[[Functional impact]]:** Security incidents that target information technology systems impact the service that these systems provide to its users. For example, a ransomware incident can severely impact the confidentiality, availability, and integrity of systems. Data can be encrypted or deleted, making it completely inaccessible to users. Consider how an incident impacts the existing business functionality of the affected system.
- **[[Information impact]]:** Incidents can affect the confidentiality, integrity, and availability of an organization’s data and information. In a data exfiltration attack, malicious actors can steal sensitive data. This data can belong to third party users or organizations. Consider the effects that information compromise can have beyond the organization. 
- **[[Recoverability]]:** How an organization recovers from an incident depends on the size and scope of the incident and the amount of resources available. In some cases, recovery might not be possible, like when a malicious actor successfully steals proprietary data and shares it publicly. Spending time, effort, and resources on an incident with no recoverability can be wasteful. It’s important to consider whether recovery is possible and consider whether it’s worth the time and cost.