- A **[[data packet]]** is a basic unit of information that travels from one device to another within a network. When data is sent from one device to another across a network, it is sent as a packet that contains information about where the packet is going, where it's coming from, and the content of the message. 
	- Think about data packets like a piece of physical mail. Imagine you want to send a letter to a friend. The envelope will need to have the address where you want the letter to go and your return address. Inside the envelope is a letter that contains the message that you want your friend to read. A data packet is very similar to a physical letter. 
		- It contains a **[[header]]** that includes the ***internet protocol address, the IP address, and the media access control, or MAC, address*** of the destination device. 
		- It also includes a **[[protocol number]]** that tells the receiving device what to do with the information in the packet. 
		- Then there's the **[[body]]** of the packet, which contains the message that needs to be transmitted to the receiving device. 
		- Finally, at the end of the packet, there's a **[[footer]]**, similar to a signature on a letter, the footer signals to the receiving device that the packet is finished.

**[[Header]]**: which includes information like the type of network protocol and port being used. Imagine this as being the name and mailing address located on an envelope. Network protocols are a set of rules that determine the transmission of data between devices on a network. Ports are non-physical locations on a computer that organize data transmission between devices on a network. The header also contains the packet's source and destination IP address. We'll explore more information contained in the header in a later section.